[[testcontext-ctx-management-dynamic-property-sources]]
= Context Configuration with Dynamic Property Sources

The Spring TestContext Framework provides support for _dynamic_ properties via the
`DynamicPropertyRegistry`, the `@DynamicPropertySource` annotation, and the
`DynamicPropertyRegistrar` API.

[NOTE]
====
The dynamic property source infrastructure was originally designed to allow properties
from {testcontainers-site}[Testcontainers] based tests to be exposed easily to Spring
integration tests. However, these features may be used with any form of external resource
whose lifecycle is managed outside the test's `ApplicationContext` or with beans whose
lifecycle is managed by the test's `ApplicationContext`.
====


[[testcontext-ctx-management-dynamic-property-sources-precedence]]
== Precedence

Dynamic properties have higher precedence than those loaded from `@TestPropertySource`,
the operating system's environment, Java system properties, or property sources added by
the application declaratively by using `@PropertySource` or programmatically. Thus,
dynamic properties can be used to selectively override properties loaded via
`@TestPropertySource`, system property sources, and application property sources.


[[testcontext-ctx-management-dynamic-property-sources-dynamic-property-registry]]
== `DynamicPropertyRegistry`

A `DynamicPropertyRegistry` is used to add _name-value_ pairs to the `Environment`.
Values are dynamic and provided via a `Supplier` which is only invoked when the property
is resolved. Typically, method references are used to supply values. The following
sections provide examples of how to use the `DynamicPropertyRegistry`.


[[testcontext-ctx-management-dynamic-property-sources-dynamic-property-source]]
== `@DynamicPropertySource`

In contrast to the
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/ctx-management/property-sources.adoc[`@TestPropertySource`]
annotation that is applied at the class level, `@DynamicPropertySource` can be applied to
`static` methods in integration test classes in order to add properties with dynamic
values to the set of `PropertySources` in the `Environment` for the `ApplicationContext`
loaded for the integration test.

Methods in integration test classes that are annotated with `@DynamicPropertySource` must
be `static` and must accept a single `DynamicPropertyRegistry` argument. See the
class-level javadoc for `DynamicPropertyRegistry` for further details.

[TIP]
====
If you use `@DynamicPropertySource` in a base class and discover that tests in subclasses
fail because the dynamic properties change between subclasses, you may need to annotate
your base class with
xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-dirtiescontext.adoc[`@DirtiesContext`]
to ensure that each subclass gets its own `ApplicationContext` with the correct dynamic
properties.
====

The following example uses the Testcontainers project to manage a Redis container outside
of the Spring `ApplicationContext`. The IP address and port of the managed Redis
container are made available to components within the test's `ApplicationContext` via the
`redis.host` and `redis.port` properties. These properties can be accessed via Spring's
`Environment` abstraction or injected directly into Spring-managed components â€“ for
example, via `@Value("${redis.host}")` and `@Value("${redis.port}")`, respectively.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(/* ... */)
	@Testcontainers
	class ExampleIntegrationTests {

		@Container
		static GenericContainer redis =
			new GenericContainer("redis:5.0.3-alpine").withExposedPorts(6379);

		@DynamicPropertySource
		static void redisProperties(DynamicPropertyRegistry registry) {
			registry.add("redis.host", redis::getHost);
			registry.add("redis.port", redis::getFirstMappedPort);
		}

		// tests ...

	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(/* ... */)
	@Testcontainers
	class ExampleIntegrationTests {

		companion object {

			@Container
			@JvmStatic
			val redis: GenericContainer =
				GenericContainer("redis:5.0.3-alpine").withExposedPorts(6379)

			@DynamicPropertySource
			@JvmStatic
			fun redisProperties(registry: DynamicPropertyRegistry) {
				registry.add("redis.host", redis::getHost)
				registry.add("redis.port", redis::getFirstMappedPort)
			}
		}

		// tests ...

	}
----
======


[[testcontext-ctx-management-dynamic-property-sources-dynamic-property-registrar]]
== `DynamicPropertyRegistrar`

As an alternative to implementing `@DynamicPropertySource` methods in integration test
classes, you can register implementations of the `DynamicPropertyRegistrar` API as beans
within the test's `ApplicationContext`. Doing so allows you to support additional use
cases that are not possible with a `@DynamicPropertySource` method. For example, since a
`DynamicPropertyRegistrar` is itself a bean in the `ApplicationContext`, it can interact
with other beans in the context and register dynamic properties that are sourced from
those beans.

Any bean in a test's `ApplicationContext` that implements the `DynamicPropertyRegistrar`
interface will be automatically detected and eagerly initialized before the singleton
pre-instantiation phase, and the `accept()` methods of such beans will be invoked with a
`DynamicPropertyRegistry` that performs the actual dynamic property registration on
behalf of the registrar.

WARNING: Any interaction with other beans results in eager initialization of those other
beans and their dependencies.

The following example demonstrates how to implement a `DynamicPropertyRegistrar` as a
lambda expression that registers a dynamic property for the `ApiServer` bean. The
`api.url` property can be accessed via Spring's `Environment` abstraction or injected
directly into other Spring-managed components â€“ for example, via `@Value("${api.url}")`,
and the value of the `api.url` property will be dynamically retrieved from the
`ApiServer` bean.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Configuration
	class TestConfig {

		@Bean
		ApiServer apiServer() {
			return new ApiServer();
		}

		@Bean
		DynamicPropertyRegistrar apiPropertiesRegistrar(ApiServer apiServer) {
			return registry -> registry.add("api.url", apiServer::getUrl);
		}
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Configuration
	class TestConfig {

		@Bean
		fun apiServer(): ApiServer {
			return ApiServer()
		}

		@Bean
		fun apiPropertiesRegistrar(apiServer: ApiServer): DynamicPropertyRegistrar {
			return registry -> registry.add("api.url", apiServer::getUrl)
		}
	}
----
======
